The RST-WSJ-CORPUS directory contains a selection of 385 Wall Street
Journal articles from the LDC Treebank which have been annotated with
discourse structure in the framework of Rhetorical Structure Theory
(RST). In addition, the corpus includes a number of humanly-generated
extracts and abstracts associated with the original documents.


A description of the sub-directories and data follows:

============


RSTtrees-WSJ-main-1.0: This directory contains 385 Wall Street Journal
articles, broken into TRAINING (347 documents) and TEST (38 documents)
sub-directories. Filenames are of the form:

<docno>: the name of the text file used to create the discourse tree

Note: <docno> can be of two forms:

wsj_####.out (380 documents)
file# (5 documents)

<docno>.rst/: A directory with three files:
<docno>.lisp.name
<docno>.step.name
## -- a file with an integer as its name

The lisp file contains the discourse structure created by a human
judge for a text.

The step file contains a list of all the actions that were taken by a
human judge during the creation of the discourse structure.

The ## file is a temporary file with information about the last action 
taken by the human judge who built the discourse tree. 

All annotations were produced using a discourse annotation tool that
can be downloaded from http://www.isi.edu/~marcu/discourse.

The files in the .rst directories are provided only to enable
interested users to visualize and print in a convenient format the
discourse annotations in the corpus.

<docno>.dis: a file that contains the manually annotated discourse
structure of the file <docno>. The .dis files were generated
automatically from the .step and .lisp files using a mapping
program. More information about this program is available at
http://www.isi.edu/~marcu/discourse.  

IMPORTANT NOTE: The .lisp files may contain errors introduced by the
discourse annotation tool. Please use the .lisp and .step files only
for visualizing the trees. Use the .dis files for training/testing
purposes (the mapping program that produced the .dis file was written
so as to eliminate the errors introduced by the annotation tool).

<docno>.edus: a file corresponding to each discourse tree, with the
edus (elementary discourse units) listed line by line.

==========

RSTtrees-WSJ-double-1.0: This directory contains the same types of
files as the subdirectory RSTtrees-WSJ-main-1.0, for 53 documents
which were double-tagged by a second analyst.

===========

EXT-EDUS-150: Contains informative extracts produced from scratch
(without reference to an existing abstract) by two analysts for 150
documents (this larger set includes the 30 documents in the
subdirectory EXT-EDUS-30). For these extracts, analysts were
instructed to select a target number of EDUs for the extract, based on
the square root of the number of EDUs in the document. Files contain
EDUs by line, with the selected EDUS marked by a * at the beginning of
the line. Filenames are of the form:

<docno>.bracketed.key.ext.name2.new 
<docno>.bracketed.key.ext.name3.new

============

EXT-EDUS-30: Contains two sets of short and long extracts for 30
documents, derived from humanly produced abstracts. These "derived
extracts" were produced by two analysts as follows: First, the short
and long abstracts were bracketed into EDUs (see directory
SumExp-ABS-30 for the humanly produced abstract texts); then, each EDU
in the abstract was mapped to one or more corresponding EDUs in the
document to produce the extract.  Files contain EDUs by line, with the
selected EDUS marked by a * at the beginning of the line.

For the longer, informative derived extract, the filenames are of the
form:

<docno>.abs.name1 
<docno>.abs.name2

For the shorter, indicative derived extract, the filenames are of the
form:

<docno>.shortabs.name1 
<docno>.shortabs.name2 

In addition, this directory contains one set of long, informative
extracts for all 30 documents, produced from scratch by selecting the
important EDUs in the document. The general guidance for producing
these extracts was the same as for the humanly produced long
abstracts. (See directory SumExp-ABS-30 for description.) The
filenames are of the form:

<docno>.ext.name4

===============

SumExp-ABS-30: This directory contains two types of humanly-produced
abstracts built by a professional abstractor for 30 documents: 1) A
long, informative abstract, for which the abstractor was instructed to
capture the essential information conveyed in the document, in no more
than 25% of the original length; 2) a short, indicative abstract of
2-3 sentences, written so as to identify the main topic of the
article. Corresponding to each abstract is a file that has been
bracketed and numbered by edus. In addition, for each document, there
is a file containing a set of questions whose answers can be derived
from the informative abstract. Filenames are of the form:

    <filename>.abs: the longer, informative abstract
    
    <filename>.abs-bracketed: bracketed version of the above

    <filename>.short-abs: the shorter, indicative abstract

    <filename>.short-abs-bracketed: bracketed version of the above

    <filename>.que: the questions for the text

==============

SumExp-Texts150: This directory contains a set of files used for
creating the human extracts:

    <docno>.formatted: a formatted version of the original document,
for printing and reading purposes.

    <docno>.bracketed: a version of the document which has been
bracketed and numbered according to the edus derived from the
discourse tree (with paragraph boundaries preserved). This version was
used to produce the human extracts.







